Document binary caching (multiple articles) (#130)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/consume/binary-caching-default.md

---
title: "Default local vcpkg binary cache"
description: Learn about the default vcpkg binary cache
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 9/25/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg

> ms.topic: concept-article

Reviewer: I thought we were putting all the concept articles in the concepts section in the ToC? This one is placed in the consume section.

Author: I decided to put it here so it can be found with the other tutorials, this article is kind of in-between a concept and a tutorial.

It explains what the default binary cache is (which makes it conceptual), but it also teaches how to redirect or disable the default binary cache. Since restoring and disabling only takes one step each, they don't feel like actual tutorials.

---
# Default local vcpkg binary cache

By default, vcpkg creates a local binary cache. This saves time when installing a package that has been previously installed in the same machine.

The location of the default binary cache depends on your operating system.

> ## [Windows](#tab/default-windows)

Reviewer: Tabs or article pivots? When should we use one over the other?

Author: I went with tabs here since the workflow doesn't change, only the specific syntax for each step.

Reviewer: It might be nicer just to add the article pivots. That way, the reader just has to select their operating system rather than having to select it multiple times throughout the articles.

---
title: "Default local vcpkg binary cache"
description: Learn about the default vcpkg binary cache
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 9/25/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg

> ms.topic: conceptual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.topic: concept-article
```

> ---
> title: "Default local vcpkg binary cache"
> description: Learn about the default vcpkg binary cache
> author: vicroms
> ms.author: viromer
> ms.date: 9/25/2023
> ms.prod: vcpkg
> ms.topic: concept-article
> ---
> # Default local vcpkg binary cache
> 
> By default, vcpkg creates a local binary cache. This saves time when installing a package that has been previously installed in the same machine.
> 
> The location of the default binary cache depends on your operating system.
> 
> ## [Windows](#tab/default-windows)
> 
> By default, binary caching is enabled at the first valid location among the following:
> 
> * The location specified by the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable
> * `%LOCALAPPDATA%\vcpkg\archives`
> * `%APPDATA%\vcpkg\archives`
> 
> ## [Unix](#tab/unix)
> 
> By default, binary caching is enabled at the first valid location among the following:
> 
> * The location specified by the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable
> * `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/vcpkg/archives`
> * `$HOME/.cache/vcpkg/archives`
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: "Default local vcpkg binary cache"
description: Learn about the default vcpkg binary cache
zone_pivot_group_filename: zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: operating-systems
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 9/25/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
ms.topic: concept-article
---
# Default local vcpkg binary cache

By default, vcpkg creates a local binary cache. This saves time when installing a package that has been previously installed in the same machine.

::: zone pivot="os-windows"

By default, binary caching is enabled at the first valid location among the following:

* The location specified by the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable
* `%LOCALAPPDATA%\vcpkg\archives`
* `%APPDATA%\vcpkg\archives`

::: zone-end
::: zone pivot="os-linux, os-macos"

By default, binary caching is enabled at the first valid location among the following:

* The location specified by the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable
* `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/vcpkg/archives`
* `$HOME/.cache/vcpkg/archives`
:::zone-end
```

Reviewer: If you choose to use the article pivots, simply add the `zone_pivot_group_filename: zone-pivot-groups.json`
`zone_pivot_groups: operating-systems` to the attributes, and wrap the windows related code in `::: zone pivot="os-windows" .... ::: zone-end`. Similarily for `os-linux` and `os-macos`.
